## Close and Slow Reading

Slow and close reading is an art rather than a science. We will continue to practice it in class, but in this exercise you are asked to develop your interpretation skills more formally. You should still imagine that you are addressing an audience of your friends, peers, and mentors: that means no frivolous verbiage, empty jargon, or pontification. At the very least your writing should aspire to clarity and candor, which at their best can reach precision, elegance, and unexpected insight.

What is slow reading? During our last session some said it was shredding or tearing the text apart, assembling marginalia, contextualizing, reading between-the-lines, looking for patterns, teasing meaning out, and accounting for initial gut reaction. I am loath to provide instructions as such, but if you insist, I would say that your reading should usually begin with some sort of description of the passage at hand, orienting the reader to its place in the larger context (simply, where are we and how did we get here?). You could then proceed to describe it structurally, paying close attention to issues of form, word use, structure, symbolism, semantics (meaning), metrics, or versification (what is so special about this passage?). 

But don’t let these fancy words lull you into detached academic complacency. The slow reader is a para-literary investigator and a detective of words, in search for flashes (aha! and wtf? moments) of yet unexplained beauty or strangeness, incongruence, dissonance, fissure, puzzlement, and lyrical friction which elongate or otherwise slow down the reading experience. In reading slowly, we therefore refrain from resolving tension. The explication should pose rather than answer questions. It should be in dialogue with the text and with itself.
Slow reading, like slow eating, is the act of closing your eyes and giving a careful, frame-by-frame account of the gustatory experience--a mode of reading that stands in contrast to the mere consumption of information, but also not to be confused for poetry itself.  An intuition or a gut reaction is a good place to start, but you must end with atomizing (critical, analytic) movement of thought (persuasion, interpretation). Structure your writing well to avoid the impression of impressionism or free-form association. Your explication could conclude with some global comments about the role of your passage in the scope of the larger work, across texts, in our class, within culture or in your life at large.

Masking and unmasking meaning, literary language is dense, knotted, and gnarly. It works on multiple and sometimes competing levels of signification at once. A good slow reading will keep close to the text: marshalling evidence to unfold and peel back the logic of the fiction world which it inhabits. Peeling the onion, tracing a route, untangling a knot--whatever image you prefer, slow reading is slow and performed at scales different from casual leafing of the pages. I leave you and these perfunctory remarks with a grab-bag of mixed metaphors: the slow reader is a chef and a surgeon, a weaver and a pattern maker, a coder and a decoder. Pick one and make it yours.
